So I'm just going to open up this repo,
and
I'm gonna do a tour of the repo later
when we get to the first exercise, so
don't worry about a lot
of these files in here.
If you're following along,
you can just do what I do.
The only thing that you need to make
sure you do is just install your module.
So do a yarn or NPM,
install whatever your flavor is.
It's all in the package .JSON over the
yarn lock, so you should be good there.
Once you do that,
if you're following along,
what I'm going to do is I'm just gonna
create a new file, call it server js.
And we're just gonna put everything
in here for the sake of brevity.
So walking through
creating a server graph,
the first thing we need is
we need to create a schema.
And a schema is based off of
type definitions, and resolvers.
So first thing let's create
our type definitions.
And we're going to use
a GraphQL tag helper here,
which allows us to write
type definitions and
it will compile them to an AST,
something that the server can understand.
So we're gonna use our
graphql-tag like that.
And then we'll just make
our type definition.
So we'll say typeDefs = the gql tag, and
it's gonna use a template
string here like this.
And we'll just make some type definitions.
So most all the APIs have users, so sure,
we'll make a user, give it an id type.
So remember,
type keyword followed by name.
Then these brackets, this is what's
called creating a object type and
this is the foundation
of creating a server.
So we have a user type
who has an ID field, and
that field is expecting to be an ID
type and it is non-null or required.
I can also make another field like
username whose type would be string and
that's also non-null or required.
And you can imagine you can go on and on.
So something like created at might be
an integer or something like that.
And then we might have another
type here called settings.
And settings might belong to a user.
So we can add a relationship like this.
That belongs to the user and
then you can say something like theme, and
that might be a string.
So we have some type definitions.
The next thing we need to do at minimum is
create a query type, which is the exact
same thing as a type definition up here,
but it's special to graphQL.
GraphQL looking for
a type called query by default,
which allows our clients to query for
data.
So we're gonna make a query type here,
and we're going to define some fields
that a client is able to interact
with to actually retrieve some data.
So we'll just make one for me, give me
myself and that returns a user type.
I could also say give me
some settings by a user.
And that's an ID, so
we have some arguments there.
And that returns settings.
Let me give you the same thing for
mutations, which are the opposite of
queries, which allows you to
mutate some type of data source.
So if you said mutation and
if we wanted to create some settings here,
you might have to create an input type.
Input, NewSettingsInput.
So input type is needed if you wanna pass
an object as an argument to a field.
So I want new settings input and
settings takes the user,
which is going to be an ID, and
then it takes a theme, which is a string.
So now I can say cool,
settings takes an input variable name and
its type is NewSettingsInput is
required and it returns Settings.
That's a very basic graphQL server here,
nothing too special, not using E-nums or
unions or anything like that.
So very basic,
just wanted to get a walkthrough on it and
kind of get a grasp of everyone's
understanding of it and
kind of set the tone for
the rest of the course.
So we got our type definitions here.
The next thing is we'll have to make
some resolvers, which is a map that maps
one to one with the fields that
we have in our type definition.
So normally you start off
creating resolvers for
your queries followed by your mutations.
And then you start creating
resolvers on the field level for
any relationships, like this user here.
And then you might create resolvers for
special things like converting or
transforming your value or even
virtualizing, something that doesn't exist
in your database, but
you want graphQL to expose it.
So we'll start off with our query,
Resolvers like this.
And we know we have a me and
we have a setting.
So we'll just say me, and
we'll just return some mock data
here that looks exactly like a user.
And we know what user has an ID,
a username, and I created that.
So I'll just return that.
So it has an ID 1234, or
whatever that is, and
it has a username, and it created that.
So username coder12, and
it createdAt an integer,
so something like that, so cool.
We've got our new query there for
settings looks like it takes some argument
when we turn settings so
we'll just our code step two settings.
First value is gonna be the root value.
We don't have one here.
This is the top level resolver.
And then we get the user
as an argument here, and
the second object here, so
we'll have a user there.
And then what you can do is just
return something like this.
So settings returns a user type and
a theme.
So I'll just say user and
I'll just put the user ID there.
So let's just do that, and a theme.
I'll just hard code something and
call it the Light theme.
Cool, and
then now we have a settings mutation.
So we'll do that.
And for this one we know that it
takes an argument called input,
which is a NewSettingsInput type, and
that's an object, so no group value there.
We do have an argument called input,
and we're returning
the NewSettings like that over
here which has a user and a theme.
And we know we get a user there.
So I'm just going to return the input
because it's the same thing.
This is not a real database.
So I'll just return that.
ust got to make that one, there we go.
And then now you just probably
want to create resolvers for
any type that has relationships.
So settings has a relationship to user.
So we'll make a resolver for that.
So now I'm going out here and
say settings has a user field.
And because this is a field of a resolver,
the first value would be,
in this case, settings.
So given the settings, I want to return
a user that has an ID of settings.user.
That's what you would do
in a normal database.
But I'm just going to return
the same user that we have up here.
Here we go.
And at a minimum that's pretty
much all you need to create
your re-servers,
have your type definitions from there.
You just need to initialize your server.
So I'm gonna say, ApolloServer which
is the framework that we're using,
like I said before.
This comes from a package
called Apollo-server.
And we can go initialize it.
So we can say, server = new ApolloServer,
takes an object with
some type definitions and
a resolvers map like that.
And then we can say server.listen,
which returns a promise.
Callback here should be
a url property there.
And we can say console.log.
Server on url or server at url.
There we go.
Cool!
So let's start this.
You can just node and
followed by the name.
In this case, server.js is from that.
Oops, I spelled require wrong.
Server, it's misspelled Apollo.
Lot of typos there.
There we go.
Unknown type settings,
did you mean settings or string?
So looks like I have unknown
type per settings, settings.
>> Line 23.
There we go, thank you.
One too many Ts.
Gotta love that strict nature,
there you go.
So now we have a server, a 4000.
If you just issue a get request to that in
your browser, you get a GraphQI playground
like this which is the exploratory
documentation that I was talking about.
So ignore all this stuff that I have,
we'll get to that later.
But yeah, so now we have that.
If we look at the docs,
let me make this bigger.
If you look at the docs, you'll see
here's our queries, here's our mutations.
If I do something like asking for
me, and I want the ID back.
I'll get that, I'll get an ID back.
And that's basically us walking
through a basic GraphQL API.
Cool, and like I said, yeah,
there's other things here, right?
Like we didn't talk about a lot of other
things you can do in the type definitions
in different strategies for resolvers.
But like I said, that's just more of,
that's not so much necessary.
I'm always focused on
necessary things here, so
we can get involved with
more advanced things.